# awarenessCubes
The awareness cubes are artifacts placed in the common rooms of distributed work groups with the objective to support social awareness across distance by  providing an abstract representation of the current activities in the kitchens/common rooms of the other groups. 

One cube comprises 36 tiles on its side surface with built-in LED lights. The number and brightness of the illuminated tiles depends on the frequency of the signal and its intensity in terms of loudness. Each group can be identified by it’s individual colour.By illuminating a certain number of tiles in the corresponding colour, the activity of each group is indicated by the cube. Therefore, the cubes measure the loudness level in the room via a built-in microphone. The buttons on the top of each will be used to express a particular group status or mood. The purpose of the cube concept is to enhance awareness about the other groups and to act as a reminder that there are spatially separated colleagues following similar goals. 

The buttons on the top of the cube can be used to express the overall group mood or activity. After a button has been pressed, it lights up on all of the cubes in that group’s colour that initiated the expression. The mood expression can be deactivated by pressing the button again, or it can be overriden by another group if that groupt also presses the button. The central button turns the cube off in two steps. The first mode turns off the microphone and the outbound connection of its data. The second mode turns off inbound connections, too, and therefore does not display any activity. The buttons on the top of each will be used to express a particular group status or mood. The purpose of the cube concept is to enhance awareness about the other groups and to act as a reminder that there are spatially separated colleagues following similar goals. 

The cube sends out data for two different actions via its WIFI connection. On a significant change in the loudness level a message is sent to a server containing the type of sensor (microphone), the ID of the cube (A, B or C) and the number of LEDs to activate (0-12). If a button is pressed, a similar message is sent out containing the type of sensor (button), the ID of the cube (A, B, or C), the number of the button (0-8) and the state of the button (0 or 1).
